we are born with inherited differences
our genes a few the blueprints for all
the components of the cells and tissues
in the body and then we have different
experiences that are unique to
individuals these conspire to create
diseases and I think in many ways it's
not surprising that they'll make us
different when we undergo treatment and
that's the idea of personalized medicine
the right treatment at the right time
for the right person and personalizar
individualized medicine is changing the
whole way we practice all of healthcare
across all diseases but technology is
going to be introduced much more quickly
in cancer because cancers are diseases
of defective genes acquired defects of
regions they have as many as 50 or 60
genetic changes 500 or more epi genome
changes and I think what we're going to
see happen is the ability to look at all
the gene sequences have all the gene
changes at our disposal to make clinical
decisions I think that will come
probably in the four to five year time
frame and I think there will be a
different style of interaction I suspect
between physician and the patient
probably be the patient will have at
their disposal all of their health
records their genome their epigenome
every vaccine shot pill encounter image
that they've ever has it and that is
going to be a reasonable tax on our
ability to heal up get all this
information together but we've quite
literally led this revolution our basic
researchers have been ones who
discovered many of these genomic and
epigenomic differences in different
cancers and different people
the same type of cancer but also a real
competitive advantage of Johns Hopkins
over many other places is that we have a
school of engineering departments of
computer science and the like but you
have the expertise to think about an
information problem of this scope and to
really make it a reality we're going to
fundamentally change our medicine is
practiced